h1. Welcome to CIOP wiki!

h2. About CIOP

CIOP (read chop) is the result of the development of a Cloud middleware and infrastructure to support Earth Observation application developed by Scientist on virtual Sandboxes. The project exploits at best the Cloud Computing paradigm for hand-off management of non-critical systems and to develop services allowing Scientists to develop and test their new applications within a virtual platform; prior to their deployment and exploitation.
Since 2006, ESA Grid Processing on-demand (G-POD) has provide a processing environment coupled with a huge amount of Earth Observation (almost 300TB) for science applications. The so-called G-POD Cathegory-1 project, addressed to the PI, has seen over forty science projects operated in G-POD. High-level products were generated and new sensor synergies were discovered thanks to the Grid driven processing power ofered to scientists via G-POD.
Today, with the Cloud Computing Operational Pilot: EO Sandbox Service (CIOP), G-POD goes one step further. Scientists are provided with an Cloud based application development environment to implement and test their applications. Within the EO Sandbox and on the one-hand, the scientists find the same environment as they have on their local workstation, on the other they are provided with data discovery and access tools, project management tools suite (e.g. ticketing, versioning, wiki) and a document management system. Once implemented and tested on a sandbox, the application is then run against the full dataset series available on G-POD. 

h2. CIOP objectives

CIOP takes advantage of Cloud services by extending current G-POD system with services allowing Scientists to develop and test new applications within a virtualized environment; prior to their deployment and exploitation.
With this service, ESA is able to better serve the EO Scientific community by supporting science project activities through their full lifecycle.
CIOP also aims to exploit at best the Cloud Computing paradigm and existing Cloud Providers for a hand-off management of non-critical systems; in particular the applications developed on Sandboxes.

h2. Getting started

CIOP learning curve can be steep! To tackle this, we have created a few tutorials to drive you through the CIOP concepts and help you getting started with the integration of your applications.
Follow this link "BEAM Arithm(BEAM Arithm tutorial)":beam_arithm.textile to get started with CIOP.


h2. User Manual

[[User Manual]]

h2. Frequently asked questions

We have gathered a set of [[Frequently Asked Questions]]
